[Music]
at the age of 15 miyamoto musashi went
on musha shukyo which means warriors
pilgrimage
during this time of his life he traveled
the land practicing his skills
independently and engaged in a series of
jewels
after he received ronan's status he
encountered the most
challenging opponent he ever faced
sasaki kojiro
and killed him after this event he
renounced
doing lethal jewels he eventually
retired to a cave
where he wrote down his knowledge and
wisdom for later generations
musashi's written works expand on the
path of the warrior
which is the samurai way of discipline
focus
restraint and honor the path of the
warrior
is governed by moral and ethical codes
that are commonly referred to as
bushido shortly before he died musashi
compiled
21 principles on how a warrior should
live
these timeless principles known as
dokodo can inspire
us today to live well this three-part
series elaborates on the 21 principles
of musashi's dokoro
the first and second part explored the
first 14 principles
this third and final part further
explores the path of the warrior
based on the last 7 principles please
note
the elaborations in this video are based
on existing philosophies
the author's interpretations and
reasoning and are intended to be an
inspiration for present
day life
[Music]
15. do not act following customary
beliefs
when we look at human behavior we see
the characteristics of a hurt animal
many people slavishly follow the norm
not necessarily because it's the best
thing to do
but because everyone does it musashi was
aware of the dangers of blind obedience
and probably experienced the
unskillfulness of leaders in his time
these could be the leaders of a so
called koi which is a japanese school of
traditional art
but also politicians and even the
emperor himself
when we carelessly follow customary
beliefs we throw away our common sense
rational thinking capacity and in some
cases our morality
in the process something being the norm
doesn't mean that it isn't evil we can
find countless examples of this
in history in which people collectively
engage in evil
convinced that what they do is somehow
justifiable
the events during the second world war
illustrate that people who blindly
follow the dominant narrative
are capable of doing horrifying things
another example is the general attitude
towards
drinking in western culture while the
use of narcotics is frowned upon
drinking alcohol is institutionalized
and considered acceptable
fun and social even though its effects
can be as destructive
if not even more as using narcotics it's
so normalized that it's the only drug
that we have to justify not taking
even when alcohol consumption
contributes to approximately
3 million deaths each year according to
the world health organization
hence customary beliefs aren't always
the best guidelines
musashi who has lived as a ronin as well
as a hermit
spent significant amounts of time
separated from society and its norms
one of the benefits of such solitude is
that it shields us
from outside influences and lets us
watch the world
from a distance this makes it easier to
independently decide
what's beneficial to our lives and what
isn't
16. do not collect weapons or practice
with weapons
beyond what is useful miyamoto musashi
carried a long and a short sword not
because he wanted to show off his
weaponry
but because he was skilled in fighting
with two swords
and carrying two swords was the way of
the warrior
in the book of five rings musashi
explains that every weapon has
unique characteristics the companion
sword for example
is preferable in confined spaces or when
you're close to your opponent
as opposed to spears and helbert that
are best used on the battlefield
so even though there's a wide range of
choices and functionalities when it
comes to weaponry
musashi advises us not to collect or
practice with weapons
beyond what's useful we can see this as
a metaphor for everyday life
one of the traps that many ambitious
people fall into is that they don't
stick with the essentials that get the
job done
they engage in unnecessary activities
make unnecessary investments
spend unnecessary amounts of time
networking with people without making
any significant progress
the inability to clearly define what we
need to achieve our goals
and stick with doing what needs to be
done is a recipe for failure
sometimes this involves ruthlessly
cutting out the elements that
despite their inherent value and
usefulness are useless
in the context of our pursuit however
musashi also argues that we shouldn't
get too attached to one particular way
or method either the samurai practiced
with a variety of weapons
from swords to sticks and knew the
abilities and characteristics
of each weapon they used which made them
flexible fighters that could be deployed
in different kinds of battles i quote
you should not have a favorite weapon to
become over-familiar with one weapon
is as much a fault as not knowing it
sufficiently well
you should not copy others but use
weapons which you can handle properly
it is bad for commanders and troops to
have likes and dislikes
these are things you must learn
thoroughly
end quote so being successful is a
delicate process and musashi seems to
point to the golden middle path between
having a lack of focus
and being too fixated and attached to
one thing
17. do not fear death
the awareness of death was an essential
part of being a samurai
students of the sword were trained to
fight jewels to the death
by being subjugated to relentless
practice they were made ready to fight
battles and to be routinely faced with
death
generally speaking musashi stated the
way of the warrior
is the resolute acceptance of death
end quote truly accepting death
means not fearing death and when we
don't fear death
we won't give ground when our lives are
threatened in battle
thus on the battlefield or in a jewel
the acceptance of death is empowering
but how about everyday life
even though most of us are probably less
prone to getting our skulls crushed by a
longsword
compared to those who lived in 17th
century japan
death is still lurking in the shadows
everywhere we go
life isn't a fairy tale we all die and
we could die anytime
yet many of us let the fear of the
inevitable
generate unnecessary anxiety this is
unfortunate because as long as we're
still alive
we're not dead so in no way it hinders
us
but when we're dead we're not alive and
we simply don't know what it's like
so we cannot judge whether or not it's a
bad thing to die
maybe death is the portal to something
much more enjoyable than
life maybe not but if death means simply
the absence of life we're at least
liberated from all of life's sufferings
in short
it's pointless to worry about death
because we don't know what it is
18. do not seek to possess either
goods or thieves for your old age
it may be clear by now that musashi was
a minimalist
he lived for honor victory perfecting
his skill
and contributing to humanity by sharing
his wisdom
he fought jewel after duel knowing that
he could die at the sword of his
opponent
he tells us not to seek to possess
either goods or thieves for old age
in the modern day this could translate
to sacrificing our time and energy
now in exchange for possessions money
and investments
that we can enjoy when we're old he
doesn't say
that we shouldn't be concerned with old
age at all
from learning about his life i would say
that musashi despite repeatedly having
walked on the edge between life and
death
was quite concerned with the future
including the possibility of longevity
otherwise he wouldn't have cared about
honor or leaving a legacy
so to find a deeper meaning behind this
lesson we may want to turn to buddhism
again for philosophical substance
the buddha isn't against acquiring
wealth as long as we acquire it
in wholesome ways and use it for good
but
running after wealth takes a lot of
effort and can exhaust us
and even destroy our health and overall
well-being
so even though there's nothing wrong
with wealth we may ask ourselves if
achieving it
is the best pursuit available instead we
might want to invest our lives
in developing the mind in musashi's case
this pursuit was embodied by the
perfection of a swordsmanship
but there are other ways available that
could potentially be far
more fulfilling as well as reliable than
the accumulation of
wealth instead of trying to enter old
age as rich as possible
a buddhist might focus on developing a
sense of contentment
with the present moment instead because
if we can be content
with little we can retire with a small
pension
19. respect buddha and the gods without
counting on their help
following buddha as a spiritual teacher
or believing in god
or other deities doesn't mean that we
aren't responsible
for our own lives there are many
religious and philosophical views
on why we exist on this planet some say
that we're here to serve god
or multiple gods others say that our
lives are nothing more than a cosmic
joke and that our existence
is entirely pointless some claim that
the course of our lives is written in
the stars
others claim that we have free will and
that our lives are not
predetermined whatever the truth might
be
we're still confined to what our senses
perceive
when we look at the nature of human
existence from our own viewpoint
we see that we do have agency moreover
we're responsible for what we do and
don't do
now what fortune gives us is beyond our
control
but we do control how we handle what
fortune or god for that matter
presents to us this human ability to
choose
is an inherent part of most religions
the christians have their seven virtues
the muslims have their five pillars and
the buddhists have their eightfold path
these guidelines and precepts all imply
that it's up to us
to choose the right path despite the
circumstances
so we can pray to a deity for help
hoping that this will change
the unwanted circumstances but does it
truly work that way
we better not count on it a much better
investment
is to focus on our own strength wisdom
and resilience
so we can deal with the situation at
hand no matter how dreadful
at the end of the day we are responsible
for our own lives
20. you may abandon your own body but
you must preserve your honor
the way of the warrior is one of honor
meaning that preserving honor is more
important
than preserving one's life but honor is
a complicated
and subjective concept which differs
from culture to culture
roman catholic missionary francis xavier
was one of the first western people to
visit
japan where he arrived in the year 1550
he described how the japanese valued
honor as well as warfare and weaponry
they felt superior to all nations in and
i quote
military glory and valor and honored
everything that concerned war
end quote more recent accounts tell us
about the spirit of bushido of the
japanese soldiers who fought
during the second world war for whom
dying for the emperor was the greatest
honor
surrendering to the enemy however was
considered an act of cowardice
i quote those who had surrendered to the
japanese
regardless of how courageously or
honorably they had fought
merited nothing but contempt they had
forfeited all honor and
literally deserved nothing end quote
at the end of the day the way we handle
honor depends on personal
and cultural preferences if we think
that honor is more important
than life then it's worth dying for but
if we don't care about honor we probably
choose to live
over the preservation of it according to
musashi however
the value of honor exceeded life and
death
21 never stray from the way
the path of the warrior is one of
extreme determination
on which there's little room for
deviation
musashi's way was the way of the sword
which he dedicated himself to completely
and transcended everything else
including life and death
now the degree of commitment of those
who walk the path of the warrior can be
considered extreme
looking at it from a modern western
viewpoint these days
true commitment seems rare as most of us
are consumers
in a throwaway society going from
pleasure to pleasure
instead of choosing a more difficult
path of sacrifice and restraint
at the surface of a higher goal even if
this higher goal
could be the quality of our own life and
well-being
but still if we truly want to get
something done
something significant we have to commit
to a certain degree
it's difficult to get any serious work
done when we aren't dedicated
this applies to business relationships
creative projects or a spiritual path
it applies to mastering any skill from
cooking
to playing an instrument but also to
conquering bad habits
and addictions musashi's life is a
testimony of what we can accomplish
if we fully wholeheartedly commit to a
goal
in his case sword fighting musashi
fought more than 60 jewels
many of which were to the death and he
won all of them
furthermore he left a legacy for
centuries to come
and he is honored to this day
thank you for watching
[Music]
you